In PyAnalySeries, just as we had different methods to estimate
the Power Spectral Density, we also have several approaches to
apply high-pass or band-pass filtering.
Let’s return to our example and explore the filtering options
We select the resampled PercAndes record, and choose: Process, Frequency
Filter.
Different filtering methods can be tested, such as Butterworth, Lanczos
FIR for Finite Impulse Response, or Savitzky–Golay.
It is important to clearly understand the method being applied
The documentation is available for that purpose.
The workflow remains the same: we explore different parameter settings
clear the stack of intermediate tests when needed, and save
once the result is satisfactory.
We know from the published study that precessional periodicities, around
19 and 2 3 thousand years, are significant in the
PercAndes record from this core.
We now filter the record within this range of periodicities
Here, we choose a Butterworth period band filter, keeping periodicities
between 18 and 2 5 thousand years.
Save the filtered series.
You can now display both the original and the frequency-filtered
series together.
Select both series, and press Control T to display them
together.
We can now compare this filtered signal to insolation variations